Unsupervised machine learning involves
a wide variety of tasks where unlike
supervised learning there's no
target value to be predicted.
Instead, the job of
the unsupervised learning algorithm
is to take the raw data and
capture some interesting structure in it.
This is useful for
a number of scenarios, to explore and
visualize the structure in a complex
dataset, to do density estimation,
to predict the probabilities of events.
To compress the data,
to extract more effective features before
applying a supervised learning algorithm.
Or to discover important structures
like clusters of similar objects or
unusual or
individual outliers in the data.
All of these and other unsupervised
learning tasks have in common the property
that there are no target values, labels or
output to learn from or to be predicted.
Instead, we only have the unlabeled
samples in the dataset as input.
Here's an example of an unsupervised
method called clustering.
Suppose you're in charge of running a
website that allows people to buy products
from your company.
And the site gets thousands
of visits per day.
As people access the site by
clicking links to products or
typing in search terms,
their interactions are logged by the web
server that creates a large log file.
It might be useful for your business
to understand who's using your site
by grouping users according
to their shopping behavior.
For example, there might be a group
of more expert users who use more
advanced features to find
something very specific.
While another group of non-expert users
might just enjoy browsing a broader
set of items.
By clustering users into groups, you might
gain some insight into who your typical
customers are and what site features
different types of users find important.
You could use insights from clustering
users to improve the site's features for
different groups or
to recommend products to specific groups
that would be more likely to buy them.
So in this lecture, we'll give a brief
survey of unsupervised learning methods
divided into two major categories.
First we'll look at one family
of unsupervised methods called
transformations, because they essentially
just run the original data through some
kind of useful process that extracts or
computes information of some kind.
Then we'll look at the other broad
family of unsupervised learning methods
which are the clustering methods.
Like in our website example that
find groups in the data and
assign every point in the dataset
to one of the groups.
Okay, let's look at some important
unsupervised learning methods that
transform the input data in useful ways.
One method called density
estimation is used when
you have a set of measurements
scattered throughout an area.
And you want to create what you can think
of as a smooth version over the whole area
that gives a general estimate for how
likely it would be to observe a particular
measurement in some area of that space.
For example, in a medical application
related to diagnosing diabetes,
density estimation with one variable might
be used to estimate the distribution of
a specific test score.
The plasma glucose concentration
number from a blood test for
people who have a particular
form of diabetes.
With this density estimate we can estimate
the probability that anyone with that
medical condition has
a particular glucose score.
Even if that specific score wasn't
seen in the original dataset.
We could then compare this to
the range of glucose levels for
people who do not have that condition,
which is shown by the red line here.
Often, density estimates are then used in
further machine learning stages as part of
providing features for
classification or regression.
The more technical way to say
this is that density estimation
calculates a continuous probability
density over the feature space,
given a set of discrete
samples in that feature space.
With this density estimate,
we can estimate how likely any given
combination of features is to occur.
In Scikit-Learn,
you can use the kernel density class in
the sklearn.neighbors module to perform
one widely used form of density estimation
called kernel density estimation.
Kernel density's especially popular for
use in creating heat maps with
geospatial data like this one.